During the 1900s people thought galaxies were stellar nebulae in our galaxy.
They thought that our galaxy was the only one in the universe.
People in the 1900s thought that how we view the universe now was crazy.
But then that view was challenged in the 1920s by an astronomer named Heber Curtis of Lick Observatory in California.
He proposed that the steller nebulae were distant galaxies or stars that were unbelievably distant from our galaxy.
Meanwhile, Harlow Shapley of Mount Wilson Observatory was proving that even our galaxy was inconceivably vast.
These two arguments clashed in the Great Debate of astronomy.
In the end, both were right and wrong at the same time.






Astronomer Edwin Hubble resolved this debate. He also used the Cepheid variable technique, but this time he measured stars in the spiral nebulae themselves.
He started by observing what we call the Andromeda galaxy today.
Over the next year, he studied 35 Cepheids in the Andromeda galaxy.
He got from his studies that Andromeda had to be at least a million light-years away.
His findings showed that though our Milky Way is vast it doesn’t negate that other galaxies exist.











By the end of the decade, Hubble had not only shown that the spiral nebulae were island universes but also that galaxies were flying apart from each other.
In simpler words, the universe was expanding.
By the end of the century, astronomers discovered that the universe was filled with these galaxies.
In 1990 NASA launched the first space telescope, giving a new perspective on space.
Instead of blurry blobs of light, the pictures of galaxies had shapes. They named it after the astronomer that had started it all;Edwin Hubble.
The images it has captured over its 30 years of service are outstanding, to say the least, so much so that they are printed on coffee mugs and socks.
In 1995 Robert WIlliams, the telescope’s director, decide to train the telescope on a patch of sky near the handle of the Big Dipper.
This revealed thousands of previously unknown galaxies from the farthest reaches of space.
As for Leavitt, she received a letter of recognition from a Swedish mathmetician for a nomination for the Nobel Prize.
But he found that Leavitt had died four years earlier.
